>> Eric Reinert: All right, Serverless,
I love that gif, because I feel like this
describes Serverless perfectly,
shut up and take my money, right?
We talked about monoliths being deep
thought, this huge, massive beast that,
either does this one little thing,
or like tons of other things.
We talked about distributed having
these satellites all over the place and
having them work together and
now we're talking about Serverless,
basically being like, hey, I don't wanna
worry about any of this stuff, right?
I just wanna run my code and
you cloud provider,
you take care of the rest and so,
this gif really does do a good job of,
in my mind kind of describing what
you end up using Serverless for.
So, let's talk about Serverless because
Serverless doesn't necessarily mean
one thing.
It can mean one thing, but
I wanna remind anyone out there watching
that Serverless doesn't just
mean functions as a service.
So, if we read the definition, Serverless
architecture refers to applications
that significantly depend on third
party services, backend-as-a-service or
BaaS, or on custom code that's run
in ephemeral containers, FaaS,
functions as a service,
which I forgot to put hyphens between.
But who can help me differentiate
what a BaaS is versus a FaaS,
and I'm not talking about fish.
So, can anyone,
name a backend as a service platform?
>> Speaker 1: Firebase.
>> Eric Reinert: Firebase, yep, what else?
>> Speaker 1: Supabase.
>> Eric Reinert: Supabase,
yep, exactly, yeah,
really any kind of
platform that makes it so
that all you have to work with is an API
is a back end as a service, or a BaaS.
When we talk about Serverless Quirke
doesn't just use Serverless
functions we actually use
Supabase as well, why?
Why do you use Supabase?
Well, because Supabase gives us
the functionality out of the box as having
a PostgreSQL instance, but
I don't need to do it in RDS.
I don't have to manage
that service myself,
that instance myself.
And on top of that for now,
since we're such a small company and
we're just getting started,
I don't wanna have to pay for
the 24-hour consumption of ARDS instance,
right?
I'd rather just pay for the requests and
the data usages that I have.
This is what makes backend as a service or
Baas so valuable, right?
Is you can lean on what
they've already built and
just have a simple interface to work with.
Functions as a service, however, are
almost a step lower than microservices,
where functions as a service means that
there's one particular function that
you wanna do, that's it.
Just this one thing, ring the doorbell,
cool, ring the doorbell,
ring the doorbell, ring the doorbell,
that's all it does.
And I talked about before with
microservices, you should normally expect
the same response, you should always
expect the same response as a function.
You should never have a function do two
different things, if you're doing that,
that means you have two functions and
you need to separate them out, and
you're probably not using functions
[LAUGH] as a service properly.
Functions as a service is really meant
to say I have one specific process
that I want to run, and I want to
run it to the N-th power, right?
And I wanna scale that
to the N-th power,
Serverless overall whether if it's backend
as a service or functions as a service,
is the idea that, again,
you're either utilizing a provider that
you're paying to give you the services
without the cost of management.
Again, shut up and take my money,
or you're doing it so that you have
an isolated specific use case that you
want to scale to the N, and on top
of that, you don't have to worry about
the management of the infrastructure.
Serverless isn't so much about a design in
the sense of decoupling, though it can be.
It's more also about cost savings and
finding ways to save money, and
we'll talk a little bit more about
how that is sometimes good and
how that is sometimes bad.
So, Serverless architectures, the app
logic is still running on servers but
all the management is done by the cloud
provider, Amazon, Azure, GCP, etc.
You just need to run your code and
the cloud provider takes care of the rest.
Now, this can either be code in your own
service that's reaching out to the cloud
provider and getting data like a BaaS, or
it means that you're literally
taking one specific function.
You're putting that up in Amazon, and
then you're letting it run thousands and
thousands of times a day, but
the goal here is to make it so
that you're just running your code and
the cloud provider takes care of the rest.
You don't have to worry about uptime,
you don't have to worry about scalability,
you don't have to worry about pretty much
most of the stuff we've already talked
about today.